# Who owns our homes?

*Who owns our homes? Unmasking the anonymous corporate owner and identifying market concentration* is a short, methodologically focused research paper about understanding what a corporate landlord actually owns within a market. What makes this difficult is that corporations have thicc structures 🍑 with multiple levels of subsidiaries, along with other confounding structures like joint ventures. Looking at the tax parcel ownership and seeing that "Property Owner 10 LLC" owns the property doesn't shine light on the real corporate beneficiary or any other properties that corporation may own outside of "Property Owner 10 LLC".

This paper draws out a method of finding out what owners are connected to, or perhaps the same as, other corporate owners; you'll have to read the paper to get the actual methods. Once you do know who owns what, then you can figure out how much any one particular owner dominates a market, how owners of certain sizes act collectively, or how concentrated the entire market is. Here I focus mostly on institutional landlords - the *really* thicc Wall Street landlords with thousands of properties. Compared to the mom-and-pop landlord, these have ample money to spend and easily outcompete the average homebuyer.

In this paper the market under study is the single-family rental market of Jacksonville, which through my Shimberg work and in collaboration with UNF professor Jaffee's [JAX Rental Housing Project](https://jaxrentalhousingproject.domains.unf.edu/), I've learned is becoming rapidly unaffordable and hostile as aggressive corporate landlords purchase and control more and more of the market. After connecting the anonymous landlords, I look at two landlords in particular who acquired a lot of property in my analysis time window. Then I look at aggregate characterizations of market concentrations and how it changes over time.

The paper, assuming it's all fine and dandy, should be published some time in winter 2023-24. Upon publication, it will be linked here!